# 202206111251
Created: 2022-06-11 12:51

- Page 31 - Explore/explot: The Latest vs. the Greatest
	- Meant to answer the question of something you know versus something new
		- Your favorite italian place, or a new thai food place?
		- A good friend, or someone you want to know better?
		- Recipe you know well, or try a new one?
	- The main issue is that everything that is now your "Greatest" was at one point just the "latest" that you tried. How do you balance it?
		- Called the Explore/Exploit tradeoff
- Page 32
	- Explore is to gather new information
	- Exploit is to use known information
- Page 35
	- The interval makes the strategy
		- If you are new in town, explore plenty and you will still have plenty of time to exploit a new best.
		- If you are leaving, exploit what you know since you won't have time to exploit new bests from exploring
		- Basically, as the interval (time) of the options gets older, exploiting becomes the more optimal strategy
			- Good example is film industry, releasing more and more sequels each year because they are exploiting existing fan bases, not exploring new ones
- Page 36 Win-Stay
	- How should you handle/decide explore/exploit options?
		- Herbet Robbins Solution
			- Win-Stay, Lose-Shift.
			- If you keep exploiting and it stays great, then continue exploiting until it diminishes (lose/not happy with it/etc). Once it diminishes, explore a new option and exploit it until it diminishes
			- VERY context dependent, on the interval and situation etc
				- Wouldn't try something new on last night before leaving, shouldn't abandon something that has been great 100 times just because it let you down once.
- Page 37 Gittins Index
	- Based on a drug trial
		- Framed problem as having options, different probabilities of reward, and a certain amount of effort for each
	- Approached the explore/exploit problem without a time interval
		- Valued present over future, but doesn't discount future entirely
			- Value future opportunities based on the chance you will have them
				- If chance of being hit by a bus is 1%, value tomorrows dinner at 99% the value of todays
- Page 40 Gittins Index
	- Has a large table for wins vs losses values up to 9 wins and 9 losses
	- Completely unknown options are 0.7029, not 50%
	- Tracks wins vs losses to calculate value of staying or leaving
		- If you win 9 times and lose once, the Gittins Index is 0.8695. Still higher, so you should stick with it. Two losses gives 0.8103, still not bad. Three losses gives an index of 0.7573, still not awful. 4 Losses is 0.7101, you should still stay on the same option unless another one has a higher index. With 5 losses, the gittins index drops to 0.6677. Now you should abandon the current option for even an entirely untested option (gittins index of 0.7029)
	- Page 41 has modified Gittins Index, where next payoff is valued at 99% of a payoff now
		- Values are all higher than before
	- Gittins index isn't perfect, has some rigid assumptions
- Page 43 Regret and Optimisim
	- Regret minimization is alternative to Gittins Index
		- Can't offer *no* regrets, but it can offer *minimized* regrets
- Page 57 - Interval is incredibly important
	-  Older people prefer to exploit tried and true social connections (family, long term friends) because their interval is low
		- When asked if they want to meet someone new or meet with family, almost always chose family. When asked to assume they had an extra 20 years to live, they almost always picked to meet a new friend
	- Young people prefer to explore (meet someone new) because their remaining interval is high
		- When asked if they want to meet someone new or meet with family, they chose new friends. When asked the same but asked to pretend they're moving soon, they would choose family
	- Intervals - The closer to the end, the more well-defined and tested the "exploit" options are, but that still doesn't make them the best.
		- If a grandparent says a restaurant is the best, it's worth noting because they've likely explored plenty in their interval
		- But you also have a long amount of your interval left, so continue to explore
		
## References
1. algorithms_to_live_by chapter 2
2. [[202206111224]]