# 202205091944
Created: 2022-05-09 19:44

Three-pass process to improve efficiency of reading research papers

The process of properly reading and digesting a research paper doesn't get taught most of the time. Usually students just make their own method from trying and failing different methods.

## Three Passes
### First Pass
Each of the three passes has a set goal, rather than trying to understand the entire document at once

The first pass should only take 5 to 10 minutes. Primarily need to read the title, abstract, and introduction. This gives a good deal of context for the rest of the paper. The next thing to read is sections and chapters headings. Then read the conclusions. This lets you get a very high level look at the entire paper, and at each chapter.

Should be able to answer 5 questions. What is the: 
- Category. This is important for context, whether it's the result of testing, a prototype, etc
- Context. Is it a response or addition to other papers? Why is this paper being written?
- Correctness. Does the author make something that passes the sanity check or is it obviously wrong?
- Contributions. Who contributed to making this? What's their background?
- Clarity. Is it well written and organized?

With these in mind, is this paper worth continuing to read? Is it still interesting and useful, or should it be abandoned?

If writing a paper: While this system is good, most people reading it will only make one single pass. Make sure there are clear sections and sub-sections regardless, and that you have clear and concise abstracts. If the concept can't be understood after one full reading it will likely not make it to publishing. If the abstract and purpose is bad, it will never be read. 

### Second Pass

Read through the paper more carefully, but avoid proofs or other deep-understanding sections.
Good to write down key points and comments as you read, whether it's in a margin or separate and referencing the section.
Check all figures, diagrams, and illustrations. Make sure that they are labelled and scaled correctly so they are actually significant and not just zoomed in or skewed.
Mark unread references, this lets you find them quickly for later reading.
This should take up to an hour. After this, you should understand the content and be able to summarize it, even if you're not an expert. Good if you are interested, but it isn't in your research speciality.

If you don't understand it after this pass, that's okay. It could be on the author (poorly written or understand), your knowledge base(proofs or other required information that you don't have), or you could simply be tired and need to look at it with fresh eyes. Now, you can set aside the paper, knowing the general content but hoping to not need to use it. You can also revisit this once exploring more of the required information. Or, you can go on to the third pass.

### Third Pass
This is very in depth.

The purpose of the third pass is to attempt to remake the paper. Take the same assumptions as the author, and try to recreate the work. Comparing and contrasting your new view of the topic with the authors is the goal. It highlights shortcomings and innovations, flaws, and even hidden assumptions that may get brushed over.

Find and breakdown/challenge every assumption in the paper, then think about how you would implement it to see if they do a better job or if you do. This leads to a great understanding of the proof and material. It is also good to write notes for your own future research, should you be on a similar subject.

This can take 4-5 hours for a beginner, but as little as 1 hour with experience. When finished, you should be able to remake the outline and structure of the paper from memory, and know it's strong and weak areas. You will also know any issues, experimental errors, or false conclusions well.

## Literature Survey

Tests your reading skills (from above)

Pick 5 recent papers in some field from google scholar (find with keywords)
Do a first pass on each
Read related works sections. Look for a thumbnail summary of the work. If you find a link to a recent survey paper, then you are done.
If not, find frequent citations and/or authors names in the bibliography
Download the referenced papers and save them for later review.
Look at the key researches websites and look at their recently published work
Look at the conferences where the researches published, then go to those conferences since they are likely the best or at least very good. Pick out recent works in these conferences that are high quality and related to the original document.
All of the collected files are the first version of the survey.
Do two passes on all of these papers. If any additional files jump out as being important or present in a lot of these papers, add them to the list of files.

References 2 through 4 are additional resources to review.

References
1. [[how-to-read-a-paper.pdf]]
2. T. Roscoe, “Writing Reviews for Systems Conferences,” http://people.inf.ethz.ch/troscoe/pubs/reviewwriting.pdf
3. H. Schulzrinne, “Writing Technical Articles,” http://www.cs.columbia.edu/ hgs/etc/writingstyle.html
4. G.M. Whitesides, “Whitesides’ Group: Writing a Paper,” http://www.che.iitm.ac.in/misc/dd/writepaper.pdf