up:: [[+info_databricks_data_engineering_training_notes]]

# 202211291525

Created: 2022-11-29 15:25

# DE 6.2 Introduction to Data Governance

- What is data governance
	- Data Access Control
		- Control who has access to the data
	- Data Access Audit
		- Capture and record all access to data (who accesses it and when)
	- Data Lineage
		- Capture upstream sources and downstream consumers
		- Be able to trace data from start to finish
		- Good for data quality and debugging
	- Data Discovery
		- Ability to search for and discover authorized assts
		- Makes it easier for each person to find everything they have access to

## Challenges in the Data Lake

- No fine-grained access controls
	- Can't restrict people to only have access to some data rows
- No common metadata layer
	- Entire security model needs to be updated if the file structures change at all
- Non-standard cloud-specific governance model
- Hard to audit
- No common governance model for different asset types

## How Does Unity Catalog Address the Challenges

- Has fine-grained governance for data across clouds
	- Based on standard ANSI SQL
	- Lives outside of the workspaces and computing resources so it isn't dependent
- Unify Data and AI assets
	- All data types have a single interface
	- No need to transfer security changes
		- One change changes it everywhere
	- Data lineage is collected (but not yet publicly available)
- Unify existing Catalogs
	- Joins together existing data, storage, and catalogs without making you do a hard migration/copy
		- Should make it super easy to setup Unity Catalog
	- It is additive only

# DE 6.3 Key Concepts

- Metastore - Top level. Represents metadata. Different from hive metastore
	- Storage Credential - Authentication for accessing cloud storage. Built in.
	- External Location - Support and manage external tables and files in cloud storage
	- Catalog - Top container for data objects. First part of 3 level namespace.
		- Schema - Middle level of hierarchy
			- Table
			- View
			- Function
	- Share - Part of delta sharing. Declares read-only logical collections of tables. Can be shared with one or more people outside of the organization.
	- Recipient - Part of delta sharing. Declares read-only logical collections of tables. Can be shared with one or more people outside of the organization.

## Namespaces

- In SQL, there are two-level namespaces.
	- `schema`.`table`
- In Unity Catalog, it is three leveled
	- `catalog`.`schema`.{`table` | `view` | `function`}
	- This helps make references more specific, allowing for more flexibility

# DE 6.4 Architecture

- Before Unity Catalog
	- Each workspace entirely separate
	- Has their own user/group management, metastore, access controls, and compute resources
	- Completely separate and requires full setup each time
- With Unity Catalog
	- Unity catalog holds user/group management, metastore, and access controls
	- Each workspace only holds the compute resources
	- This makes it easier to handle separate workspaces consistently
	- Keeps security and access consistent across all workspaces
	- Follows the define-once principle
