# 202206100727
Created: 2022-06-10 07:27

- Chapter 1 - Optimal stopping
- Page 10
	- In optimal stopping, the problem at hand isn't which option to pick, but how many to consider
- Page 12
	- In optimal stopping problems, you have two issues being addressed/minimized
		- Stopping early (picking an option before adequately weighing options)
		- Stopping late (spent too long weighing options and missed out on an ideal one)
	- You often want the "best", but best is relative to the collected data. The first is always the best, because there is no other data! With a second option, it has a 1/2 chance. Third option, 1/3 chance, etc.
		- 37% gets applied by making the smallest chance to be the best without eliminating too many options
- Page 13
	- 37% is called a look-then-leap algorithm
		- Gather data, then jump on first best candidate
		- With 2, we have 50/50 shot of getting best.
		- With 3, first applicant is best at the time. Pass them and go to second, you had 50/50 chance of them being better than the first, but still have the option to pass and go to the third!
			- 33% risk of dismissing the best applicant, and 16% risk of never seeing them
- Page 14
	- Table of options vs observation period & chance of getting the best
	- The 37% rule gives a roughly 37% chance of getting the *best* option
		- But not following it makes you far less likely, and very prone to early or late stopping
			- Picking entirely random, we have a 1/(pool size chance) of getting the best
			- With a pool of 1,000,000, you will only have a 0.0001% chance of getting the best by picking randomly. With 37% rule, you still have a 37% chance!
		- Interesting fact: This comes from 1/e! e=2.71828..., so 1/e is 0.367879441
		- Derivation of the rule comes from Ferguson, "Who Solved the Secretary Problem?"
- Page 15
	- 37% rule is flexible, either apply it over the pool size, or the time! (Look at 37% of applicants then take best, or set out a time of 1 month to search, pick best after first 11 days)
	
## References
1. algorithms_to_live_by - Chapter 1